##ilthus be classified by the pathophysiological event that they ity to predict or measure the relevant clinical concept ( clinireflect. they are also classified according to their intended cal validation ) [ 2 ]. depending on the type of biomarker, use. a widely used classification developed by an fda - nih different clinical data are required for validation. cross - secworking group defined the following categories : diagnos - tional studies can be used to validate diagnostic biomarker, tic biomarker, monitoring biomarker, predictive biomarker, whereas they are not sufficient to validate other biomarkprognostic biomarker, response biomarker, safety bio - ers. monitoring, prognostic, and susceptibility biomarkers marker, and susceptibility / risk biomarker. response bio - require longitudinal studies, predictive, pharmacodynamic, markers are further subdivided into pharmacodynamic and and safety biomarkers interventional studies ( fig. 1 ). to surrogate endpoint biomarkers [ 2, 3 ]. complete definitions facilitate biomarker validation, the fda has established a are given in table 1. these categories overlap and are not biomarker qualification program, and the european medimutually exclusive. e. g., a monitoring biomarker can be cines agency offers advice for biomarker validation. used in a clinical trial of an intervention that is hypothesized in this article, we will review recent discoveries on bioto slow down disease progression as a response biomarker, markers for scas with special emphasis on polyglutamine but simultaneously as a safety biomarker in the case that the scas, for which most data are available. biomarker studies intervention has undesired effects that accelerate progres - of other scas are widely lacking. specifically, there a no sion. finally, biomarkers are classified by the nature of the studies that systematically compare biomarker findings of measurement. common categories, which are relevant for polyglutamine scas with other scas. as cross - sectional scas, include genetic, biochemical, imaging, digital, and studies are of limited use to assess the clinical relevance electrophysiological biomarkers [ 1, 2 ]. of potential biomarkers, and as there are only very few biomarkers need to be adequately validated before they interventional studies,