##or or intervention, including therapeutic interventions. digi - of falls, but the addition of digital measures of gait varital biomarkers need to be delineated from coas using ability improved the prediction [ 53 ]. in a 1 - year longitudidigital technology. thus, a tapping task on the smartphone nal, multicentric study of 17 sca3 patients, stride length 1 3 104 page 6 of 11 the cerebellum ( 2025 ) 24 : 104 variation and lateral sway during gait with different speeds oculomotor abnormalities. similar to digital biomarkers, were more sensitive to change than sara [ 54 ]. digital there are only few longitudinal studies that allow a rigorous measures of gait variability, such as lateral step deviation assessment of the potential of individual electrophysiologiworsened within one year, whereas sara remained sta - cal measures as biomarkers. for an overview we refer to ble [ 55 ]. in a sensor - based, real - life study of 14 patients three review articles [ 67 – 69 ]. with various degenerative cerebellar ataxias, lateral veloc - the peripheral nervous system is often affected in scas, ity change during turning movements detected significant with the sensory part usually more severely affected than change in 1 - year follow - up [ 56 ]. the motor part. in many publications, the sensory affection postural stability has been studied with force plates, is labelled as sensory neuropathy, although available data inertial sensors and video systems. cross - sectional studies suggest that it is rather a sensory ganglionopathy or a mixidentified a number of digital measures, such as sway area ture of axonal, length - dependent neuropathy and ganglionand velocity, that distinguished sca patients and pre - ataxic opathy [ 70 – 72 ]. in a longitudinal study of sca2 pre - ataxic mutation carriers from healthy individuals [ 51, 57, 58 ]. as cuban mutation carriers, sensory amplitudes of the median with gait studies, there are almost no longitudinal studies nerves were reduced 5 to 8 years before onset compared to of digital balance measures. in a 4 - year longitudinal study, non - mutation carriers and continued to decline, as subjects a digital measure of body sway, assessed during standing approached the onset of ataxia. the amplitudes declined at with eyes closed, significantly increased in sca1 mutation a rate comparable to those of non -