##er biological observation that substitutes for and ideally preis, there is no single, generally valid definition [ 1 ]. accord - dicts a clinically relevant endpoint or intermediate outcome ing to the food and drug administration ( fda ), a bio - that is more difficult to observe ” [ 1 ]. although basically marker is defined as a “ characteristic that is measured as consistent with the fda definition, this definition emphaan indicator of normal biological processes, pathogenic sizes the advantage of biomarkers of being simpler and easprocesses, or biological responses to an exposure or inter - ier accessible than final clinical endpoints, and that they can vention, including therapeutic interventions ”. in the fda be analyzed repeatedly and over shorter periods of time [ 1 ]. definition, biomarkers are clearly delineated from clinical spinocerebellar ataxia ( scas ) are autosomal dominantly outcome assessments ( coa ), which measure, how an indi - inherited, progressive diseases. genetically, they fall into vidual feels, functions, or survives [ 2, 3 ]. another definition two major groups : those caused by dynamic repeat expanpublished in a review article characterizes a biomarker as “ a sion mutations ( repeat expansion scas ) and those caused by non - repeat mutations. to date, at least 50 different scas have been genetically identified [ 4 – 6 ]. while biomarkers are routinely used in numerous clinical indications, their thomas klockgether actual value for scas lies in their application for clinical klockgether @ uni - bonn. de trials [ 7 ]. 1 german center for neurodegenerative diseases ( dzne ), a prerequisite for the biological significance of biovenusberg - campus 1, 53127 bonn, germany markers is their relation to certain pathophysiological 2 department of neurology, university hospital dusseldorf, events, which lead to manifestation of the disease. even dusseldorf, germany in monogenic diseases, as the scas, there is not a single 3 department of parkinson ’ s disease, sleep and movement pathophysiological pathway, but rather parallel and additive disorders, university hospital bonn, bonn, germany 1 3 104 page 2 of 11 the cerebellum ( 2025 ) 24 : 104 table 1 biomarker categories according to best ( biomarkers, endpoints, and other tools ) resource [ 2 ] biomarker category definition diagnostic biomarker used to