scas, the sensitivity than coas. there is no good candidate among concentrations of the proteins encoded by the mutated genes the biochemical biomarkers. the largest amount of data is serve as pharmacodynamic ( or alternatively target engageavailable for nfl, but longitudinal studies did not reveal ment ) biomarkers. to date, assays for expanded atxn3 are substantial nfl increase over time. in contrast, mri volume available [ 20, 21 ]. there is an urgent need to develop assays measures have been shown to decrease over time in poly - for non - expanded atxn3 and for the proteins encoded by glutamine scas with larger sensitivity than sara. a par - genes associated with polyglutamine sca subtypes other ticularly promising candidate is pons volume, which is also than sca3. able to capture progression in pre - ataxic sca3 mutation while the concentrations of the proteins encoded by the carriers [ 22 ]. specifically for sca2, peak saccadic velocity mutated genes are subtype - specific, nfl has the potential to is a promising candidate [ 80 ]. the available, limited data serve as a pharmacodynamic biomarker across all sca subsuggest that diffusion mri measures and mrs metabolite types. nfl originates from neuronal axons, and increased concentrations are less suitable as mri volume measures to concentrations are assumed to indicate ongoing neurodemonitor progression. generation [ 23 ]. its utility as a response biomarker in clinipredictive biomarkers that are able to identify individu - cal trials in neurodegenerative disease is underlined by the als who are likely to experience a favorable or unfavorable results of the tofersen phase 3 trial in amyotrophic lateral effect from an intervention are of great practical use. predic - sclerosis due to sod1 mutations, which led to the approval tive biomarkers are important for enrichment strategies that of tofersen in usa and europe [ 81 ]. in polyglutamine aim at enhancing the prospect of success of clinical trials scas, blood nfl concentrations are abnormally elevated [ 3 ]. as an example, stratifying a patient population accord - many years before ataxia onset and remain at these levels ing its progression rate may allow to select a group of rapid with only minor further increase throughout the disease progressors, in whom