- mutation carriers and continued to decline, as subjects a digital measure of body sway, assessed during standing approached the onset of ataxia. the amplitudes declined at with eyes closed, significantly increased in sca1 mutation a rate comparable to those of non - mutation carriers [ 73 ]. carriers, but not healthy controls [ 59 ]. similarly, a pseudolongitudinal study of sca3 patients to digitally assess upper limb function in ataxia, various found reduced sensory amplitudes of the sural nerve, which technical systems have been developed and studied in ataxia declined in parallel with those of healthy controls [ 74 ]. the patients. examples are the 15 - white dots app - coo - test cuban study also reported a progressive increase in the [ 60 ], an extended version of the q - motor battery [ 61 ], and a mean latency of the p40 tibial - nerve somatosensory evoked composite measure derived from inertial sensors [ 62 ]. the potentials in pre - ataxic sca2 mutation carriers [ 73 ]. latter measure has been studied in a longitudinal study of motor evoked potentials following transcranial magnetic 27 ataxia patients suffering those with polyglutamine scas stimulation provide measures of integrity of the corticoand was shown to capture disease progression with a sen - spinal tract, which is affected to various degrees in scas. sitivity comparable to clinical scales [ 63 ]. although these according to a meta - analysis, central motor conduction is approaches are very promising, they do not qualify as digi - mildly prolonged in scas with the difference being more tal biomarkers in the narrow sense, as they are rather coas obvious in sca1 than in sca2, sca3, and sca6 [ 75, 76 ]. using digital technology. in a 2 year follow - up study of 33 sca2 pre - ataxic cuban digital measures derived from acoustic speech record - mutation carriers, resting motor thresholds and central ings are potential biomarkers that indicate the pathological motor conduction times deteriorated, while they remained processes underlying ataxic speech. the potential of digital stable in controls [ 77 ]. speech assessment was demonstrated in a study that devel - saccadic slowing due to pontine brainstem degeneration oped a digital classification system that correctly predicted is a highly characteristic feature of sca2. saccadic velocity clinical rating of speech disturbance in ataxia patients [ 64 ]. is reduced both