among the various mrs of coa, namely a performance outcome ( perfo ), while metabolites, inositol ( ins ) is a presumed marker of glial location and time delays between taps represent digital activation and n - acetylaspartate ( naa ) of neuronal integ - biomarkers [ 50 ]. as there are only few longitudinal studrity. in a 1 - year longitudinal study of 34 sca1 individuals, ies on digital markers in scas, we will also refer to crosspontine ins concentrations increased, while total naa / ins sectional studies. ratio decreased suggesting progressive neuronal loss with digital measures of the temporal and spatial variability glial activation [ 14 ]. another longitudinal mrs study, how - of gait parameters are considered as potential biomarkers ever, failed to detect significant changes of metabolite con - that indicate the pathogenic processes underlying ataxic centrations in sca1 and sca3 [ 46 ]. lower baseline levels gait. available recording techniques include pose estimaof naa and glutamate in the cerebellar white matter were tions based on video recordings, inertial movement units, associated with faster ataxia progression in sca1 [ 14 ]. an accelerometers, gyroscope sensors, and pressure - sensitive overview of longitudinal mri biomarker studies is given in walkways. as shown in numerous, cross - sectional studtable 3. ies, digital parameters, such as variability of stride length or joint angles, are able to discriminate not only between ataxic and healthy individuals, but also between pre - ataxic digital biomarkers sca mutation carriers and healthy individuals. for an overview we refer to a recent consensus paper [ 51 ]. in addition, a digital biomarker is defined as a characteristic or set of increased gait variability was shown to be associated with characteristics, collected from digital health technologies, the history of falls in ataxic patients [ 52 ]. in a large study that is measured as an indicator of normal biological pro - of 333 patients with various neurological gait disorders, the cesses, pathogenic processes, or responses to an exposure patients ’ retrospective fall status was the strongest predictor or intervention, including therapeutic interventions. digi - of falls, but the addition of digital measures of gait varital biomarkers need to be delineated from coas using ability improved the prediction [ 53 ]. in a 1 -