are of limited use to assess the clinical relevance electrophysiological biomarkers [ 1, 2 ]. of potential biomarkers, and as there are only very few biomarkers need to be adequately validated before they interventional studies, we have primarily considered lonare used in clinical trials. validation requires to establish gitudinal studies. we have structured the article according that the respective biomarker measures what is intended to to the nature of the measurement, i. e. genetic, biochemical, 1 3 the cerebellum ( 2025 ) 24 : 104 page 3 of 11 104 imaging, digital, and electrophysiological. for each poten - in polyglutamine scas, greater length of the expanded tial biomarker, we will discuss the corresponding patho - cag repeat is potentially associated with faster ataxia prophysiological event, the extent and quality of clinical gression. this has been demonstrated for sca1 [ 14, 15 ], validation to date, and the purpose, for which it can be used. sca2 [ 16 ], and sca3 [ 17 – 19 ]. however, the effect of the repeat length on the rate of progression is generally weak. search strategy biochemical biomarkers we searched medline and isi web of science for reports published before mar 31, 2025, with the search terms [ “ spi - in polyglutamine scas, the abnormally elongated proteins nocerebellar ataxia ” and “ biomarker ” or “ neurofilament encoded by the mutated genes are considered to be the light chain ( nfl ) ” or “ mri “ or “ digital outcome “ and major cause of neurodegeneration. correspondingly, gene “ prospective “ and “ electrophysiological ” or “ follow - up “ silencing is pursued as a promising therapeutic approach. or “ longitudinal “ ]. in addition, we used our own files of in trials that investigate gene silencing, sensitive assays that research articles. measure the concentration of the corresponding proteins are required as pharmacodynamic biomarkers. while two assay for expanded atxn3 have been published [ 20, 21 ], reports genetic biomarkers on assays of non - expanded atxn3 and the corresponding proteins of other polyglutamine scas are lacking. in a for the diagnosis of scas, molecular genetic tests provide large longitudinal study of sca3 mutation