##dic slowing due to pontine brainstem degeneration oped a digital classification system that correctly predicted is a highly characteristic feature of sca2. saccadic velocity clinical rating of speech disturbance in ataxia patients [ 64 ]. is reduced both in pre - ataxic and ataxic mutation carriers, in pre - ataxic sca2 mutation carriers, reduced speech agil - and it is inversely related to the cag repeat length [ 78, 79 ]. ity and speech rate correlated with disease severity and time in a 5 - year longitudinal study of 30 cuban sca2 patients, to ataxia onset [ 65 ]. using a neural network trained for saccadic velocity continuously decreased with progression phoneme prediction, the average entropy of vowel tokens of the disease. among various, parameters, peak velocity predictions ( ave ) was shown to be associated with ataxia had the highest responsiveness and exceeded that of sara severity and to capture progression even in absence of mea - [ 80 ]. sured speech decline [ 66 ]. potential for application in clinical trials electrophysiological biomarkers the value of molecular genetic tests to make a definitive there are extensive electrophysiological studies of sca diagnosis of a specific sca is undisputed. in this sense, mutation carriers, both at the pre - ataxic and ataxic stage. molecular genetic tests are perfect diagnostic biomarkers. electrophysiological methods are particularly useful to correspondingly, there is no need for the development and assess peripheral nerve involvement, nerve conduction validation of alternative markers that discriminate between in central motor and somatosensory pathways, as well as sca mutation carriers and healthy individuals. 1 3 the cerebellum ( 2025 ) 24 : 104 page 7 of 11 104 biomarkers that monitor disease progression of scas response biomarkers, specifically pharmacodynamic are needed in clinical trials that aim at slowing disease pro - biomarkers, which indicate the biologic activity of an intergression. the key feature of monitoring biomarkers is their vention, are essential for the execution of interventional ability to detect disease progression, preferably with higher trials. in gene silencing trials in polyglutamine scas, the sensitivity than coas. there is no good candidate among concentrations of the proteins encoded by the mutated genes the biochemical biomarkers. the largest amount of data is serve as pharmacodynamic ( or alternatively target