]. as an example, stratifying a patient population accord - many years before ataxia onset and remain at these levels ing its progression rate may allow to select a group of rapid with only minor further increase throughout the disease progressors, in whom the efficacy of the studied interven - course. an nfl decrease due to a therapeutic intervention tion can be demonstrated more easily. due to the lack of would thus indicate a slowing of neurodegeneration [ 28 ]. effective interventions, such biomarkers do not exist for such an assumption would be strongly supported by data scas, but some of the prognostic biomarkers discussed in showing that nfl is a predictor of a clinically relevant outthe next paragraph are potential candidates. likewise, there come, such as conversion to manifest ataxia or ataxia proare currently no biomarkers that predict unfavorable effect gression. despite the good rationale for the utility of nfl as of an intervention. response marker in trials ins scas, there is currently a lack other than for predictive biomarkers, there are some can - of sufficient, longitudinal data to support this claim. didates for prognostic biomarkers, i. e. markers that indicate due to the lack of therapies, there are currently no safety the likelihood of a future clinical event or progression. in biomarkers for scas to monitor the safety of an interpolyglutamine scas, cag repeat length allows a rough vention. however, such markers might be of great value estimation of the time to ataxia onset [ 10 ]. in sca1, blood in upcoming trials in scas. nfl may be useful to detect nfl [ 28 ], while in sca2 sensory nerve amplitudes of the adverse events of intrathecally applied antisense oligonuclemedian nerve [ 73 ] might be useful to estimate the time to otides, such as radiculitis [ 82 ], but published data to support ataxia onset, although both studies were performed in small this hypothesis are still lacking. number of mutation carriers. another example for potential susceptibility / risk biomarkers that indicate the potential prognostic biomarkers are digital measures of gait variabil - for developing a disease or a medical condition are of minor ity that may indicate the risk of falls [ 52, 53 ]. cag repeat significance in scas, as the disease risk is determined by length is not only associated