biomarkers on assays of non - expanded atxn3 and the corresponding proteins of other polyglutamine scas are lacking. in a for the diagnosis of scas, molecular genetic tests provide large longitudinal study of sca3 mutation carriers, mutant highly reliable information on the presence or absence of atxn3 concentrations were constant throughout the entire the disease - causing mutation. they are thus to be regarded disease course without major changes over time. further, as diagnostic biomarkers. nevertheless, we will not con - mutant atxn3 was not identified as a predictor of ataxia sider them further in this review, as they are firmly estab - progression [ 22 ]. lished and routinely used. for more details of molecular neurofilament light chain ( nfl ) is a biomarker for axogenetic testing, we refer to guidelines and a recent review nal damage in neurological disorders affecting the central article [ 8, 9 ]. and peripheral nervous system [ 23 ]. increased nfl blood in the repeat expansion scas, the length of the expanded concentrations have been reported in ataxic sca1, sca2, repeat is associated to varying degrees with the age of onset sca3, sca7, and sca8 patients [ 14, 24 – 33 ], as well as in and the rate of disease progression and may thus be con - sca1, sca2, sca3, and sca7 pre - ataxic mutation carrisidered as a prognostic biomarker. most data are available ers. in these studies, nfl concentrations of pre - ataxic mutafor the polyglutamine scas, which are caused by trans - tion carriers were in an intermediate range between healthy lated, expanded cag repeats. in a study that included 802 controls and ataxic patients [ 24, 27, 29 – 31 ]. in a study compatients with either sca1, sca2, sca3, sca6, or sca7, paring different sca subtypes, sca3 had the highest nfl repeat length explained 44. 3 to 74. 9 % of the variance in age plasma concentrations [ 26 ]. at onset [ 10 ]. based on data of two large european sca nfl plasma levels modestly increased in a 1 - year followcohorts, regression models that predict the age of onset in up study of 34 sca1 patients [ 14 ]. modelling