of 20 rnds from 2016 to 2022 in south china. rnds tend to have a high prevalence and mortality the increase of the enrolled inpatient rnd population rate compared with other rds [ 8, 20 ]. ratio of death was and percentage of icu patients, especially in juveniles, low and stable during these seven years which may show may demonstrate that there was an elevation in disease the solid quality of hospital care. the male dominance of burden of juvenile rnds in south china during these mortality is also parallel with the male dominance over - 7 years. in addition, the top five diseases accounted for all ( 63 % ). we demonstrated that the top five rnds ( wd, nearly all icu and death cases. providing adequate als, pmd, me, and sma ) accounted for 80 % of patients resources for these diseases might maximize the overall with the 20 genetic rnds, nearly all of the icu cases, benefits of rnd management. and the majority of death cases in this study. the prevsupplementary information alence of wd in 8 provinces of china was 2. 85 / 100, 000 the online version contains supplementary material available at https : / / doi. or from2013to2016 [ 21 ]. in our research, wd accounted g / 1 0. 1 1 8 6 / s 1 3 0 2 3 - 0 2 5 - 0 3 7 0 4 - 5. for the largest number of in - patient cases but the lowest percentage of icu and death cases in gd. wd cases had supplementary material 1 the highest percentage of patients from other provinces, supplementary material 2 while the majority of als patients were from local cities. the number of als cases was also large, and there were acknowledgements extremely high death and icu incidence rates. although none. the number of sma patients was relatively low, the incidence of sma among icu patients was high. accurate author contributions jjl interpreted the data and write the article. sjt, jxl and xh collected and diagnosis and high - quality treatment are important for analyzed the front sheet data. yl did the statistical work. yhf and jsz were all rnds, especially those with large numbers of patients major contributors in guiding the project and revising the manuscript. all and a high health burden. providing adequate resources authors read and approved the final manuscript. for these diseases might maximize the benefits of rnd funding management. the chinese government has announced a this work was supported