we excluded metabolic and autoimmune rnds as shanghai ) [ 17 ]. however, there is no data on rnds in well as systemic rds which involved neurological manigd. therefore, we aimed to analyze the front sheet data festations. demographic information included average for patients with 20 rnds recorded in the chinese first age, gender, admission hospital, on - admission departnational list of rds from 2016 to 2022 taken from the ment, number of icu cases, number of deaths, percentdirect reporting system for health information in gd. we age of different payments ( urban employee basic medical aimed to estimate the health burden of rnds in south insurance, uebmi ; urban resident basic medical insurchina over the 7 - year period. ance, urbmi ; new rural cooperative system, nrcs ; free medical service, fms ; social insurance and others ), and methods average length of stay. the top 5 rnds with the most this retrospective study was approved by the institu - cases were selected and analyzed separately. juveniles are tional review board of the first affiliated hospital of sun defined as individuals from birth to 18 years of age. stanyat - sen university ( no. [ 2024 ] 035 ). data were extracted dardized front sheet was supplied in the supplementary from the direct reporting system for health information data. in gd. the system includes a collection of front sheets from the hospitalization medical records of all discharged statistical analysis patients in gd. we collected 20 degenerative or genetic age was presented as mean and standard deviation while rnds of the chinese first national list. they included length of hospital stay as median and interquartile range amyotrophic lateral sclerosis ( als ), charcot - marie - ( 25th and 75th percentiles ). the other variables were tooth disease ( cmt ), cerebral autosomal dominant described as number and percentage. joinpoint regresarteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencepha - sion models [ 18 ] were used to examine the temporal lopathy ( cadasil ), congenital myotonia ( cm ), con - trends of proportional indicators ( rnds in discharged genital myasthenic syndrome ( cms ), fabry disease, patients, juveniles in discharged patients with rnds, li et al. orphanet journal of rare diseases ( 2025 ) 20 : 163 page 3 of 8 icu cases in discharged patients