first, this was a retrothe most cases, we found that the percentages of juve - spective study that only included the front sheet data for niles among those with sma ( 71. 3 % ) and pmd ( 60 % ) inpatient cases in gd. due to restrictions on informawere quite high. furthermore, the percentage of juveniles tion, we can ’ t enroll the outpatient rnds data, which increased annually among all icu patients. although the might include more comprehensive characteristics and number of deaths was small among juveniles, the health reflect the health burden of rnds more accurately. we burden of rnds on juveniles was significantly heavier will include more factors such as outpatient data, treatdue to the larger population and comparatively more icu ment strategy and hospitalization costs in the prospeccases. the tendency was more obvious in 2021 and 2022, tive study in the future. second, our inpatient data can ’ t which might have been due to the impact of covid19 demonstrate the tendency of the total rnd population. [ 19 ]. getting access to healthcare during the pandemic higher rnd hospital admissions might have alternabecame difficult due to rnd patients and carers per - tive reasons, just like better access to hospital treatment, ceived risk of covid infection and the strain on non - improved care pathways, and better recognition of the emergency healthcare resources. the early identification disease. third, there are many other rnds in addition to of rnds is important to improve the prognosis in juve - the 20 diseases analyzed in our study. we chose these 20 niles. moreover, the transition of rnds from the pediat - degenerative or genetic rnds because they are listed in rics department to the neurology department is crucial in the chinese first national list of rds and might reprehospitals without a pediatric neurologist. although there sent the situation in china. was no significant temporal change on the proportions of conclusion icu patients in all 20 rnds, it still showed an increasing trend in 2021 and 2022. the reason might be similar with our research analyzed the changing trend in the health juvenile icu rnds. burden of 20 rnds from 2016 to 2022 in south china. rnds tend to have a high prevalence and mortality the increase of the enrolled inpatient rnd population rate compared with other rds [ 8, 20 ]. ratio of death was and