##xin 3 gene. in healthy 2. case report individuals, this gene contains 12 to 44 cag repeats. [ 1 ] the repeat sequences of patients with sca3 expand to 52 to 91, which leads a 55 years old woman from china experienced dizziness in to the aggregation of polyglutamine in the nuclei of brain neu - 2017. the persistent symptoms of dizziness were exacerbated rons and brain damage without clinical manifestations. [ 2 ] by complex visual stimuli. as the disease progressed, the patient clinical symptoms of sca3 are characterized by progressive slowly developed unstable gait. during the following years, she cerebellar ataxia. other symptoms include dysarthria, oculomo - received relevant treatment for pppd and finally came to our tor abnormalities, pyramidal tract signs, extrapyramidal system hospital because of ineffective therapy. signs, and non - motor symptoms. [ 3 ] the diversity of symptoms is neurological physical examination revealed that the 4 limbs a significant challenge in clinical diagnosis of sca3. had normal muscle strength and tone. bilateral knee - jerk reflexes in this study, we presented a case of a female chinese patient were more active than normal reflexes, but babinski ’ s signs were who frequently sought treatment for dizziness. the patient was negative. patient with a broad - based gait and unstable tandem initially misdiagnosed with persistent postural - perceptual dizzi - gait with a tendency towards the right. the fukuda stepping test ness ( pppd ) and received appropriate treatment. we discovered revealed a 90° turn to the left. spontaneous nystagmus was negthis patient with vestibular dysfunction, and her family members ative, whereas slight horizontal gazing nystagmus was observed. the authors have no funding and conflicts of interest to disclose. copyright © 2025 the author ( s ). published by wolters kluwer health, inc. the datasets generated during and / or analyzed during the current study are this is an open access article distributed under the creative commons available from the corresponding author on reasonable request. attribution license 4. 0 ( ccby ), which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited. written informed consents were obtained from patient and her family members. the study was approved by the ethics committee of wuhan no. 1 hospital. how to cite this article : zhang y, chen x, pan