normal bilateral abnormal the patient ’ s mother, older sister, and younger brother showed eye tracking test both horizontal and vertical are type iii curves similar symptoms. her mother had severe symptoms and died at 60 years old. the older sister showed more severe dizziness and unsteadiness while walking, and the younger brother had only however, this patient may have been misdiagnosed with slight dizziness that did not affect daily life. bilateral vestibulopathy ( bvp ) if we only considered clinical there were no abnormalities in the routine laboratory symptoms and peripheral vestibular damage. bvp is a chronic tests. brain and cervical magnetic resonance imaging ( mri ) vestibular syndrome characterized by reduced function of revealed no obvious abnormalities. hamilton depression scale the bilateral vestibular end - organs and / or their pathways. [ 9 ] and hamilton anxiety scale scores were 19 and 20, respec - sca3 not only exhibits peripheral vestibular dysfunction, tively. the results of the video head impulse test ( vhit ) and but also central vestibular dysfunction. examinations of the caloric test indicated that the peripheral vestibular function central vestibular system can help distinguish between sca3 was impaired. an eye - tracking test suggested a central vestib - and bvp. ular system dysfunction. in addition, the same vestibular func - there is no specific treatment for sca3 and diseasetion tests, both peripheral and central, suggested that the older modifying treatments can delay disease progression. therefore, sister had more severely impaired function and the son had early diagnosis is of great significance in improving the qualnormal function ( tables 1 and 2 ). genetic testing of the patient ity of life of sca3 patients. [ 10 ] the characteristic clinical manrevealed 10 and 68 cag repeat sequences in the ataxin 3 gene. ifestations of sca3 may not be evident in the early stages. for during hospitalization, she received treatment with betahis - patients with suspected sca3, detailed medical history, physical tine and rehabilitation training. the patient ’ s symptoms had sig - examinations, and auxiliary examinations should be combined. nificantly improved after 2 weeks of treatment. vestibular function examinations can provide a more comprehensive understanding and evaluation of cerebellar function 3. discussion to reduce the misdiagnosis of sca3 patients. overall, we hope to review the diagnostic process of this case to provide a more in this article,