can provide a more comprehensive understanding and evaluation of cerebellar function 3. discussion to reduce the misdiagnosis of sca3 patients. overall, we hope to review the diagnostic process of this case to provide a more in this article, we describe a case of a patient with sca3. the inicomprehensive understanding of sca3 and provide assistance tial symptom of the patient was dizziness, followed by unsteady for future clinical diagnosis. gait. in the early stages of illness, the patient frequently sought treatment for isolated dizziness. she was misdiagnosed with pppd at another hospital because of normal brain mri findauthor contributions ings and emotional abnormalities. long - term treatment did not improve her symptoms ; therefore, she visited our hospital for writing – original draft : yisi zhang. assistance. in addition to routine laboratory tests and brain mri, writing – review & editing : xiaoguang chen, songbin pan. we performed neuro - otological and neuro - ophthalmological evaluations. examinations of the physical and vestibular functions revealed impaired function of the peripheral and central references vestibular systems. the typical family history and relevant [ 1 ] mcloughlin hs, moore lr, paulson hl. pathogenesis of sca3 examinations of family members have deepened our speculation and implications for other polyglutamine diseases. neurobiol dis. regarding sca3. we ultimately conducted genetic testing of the 2020 ; 134 : 104635. patient and genetic analysis supported the diagnosis of sca3. [ 2 ] wan n, chen z, wan l, tang b, jiang h. mr imaging of sca3 / mjd. sca3 is a neurodegenerative disease. the cerebellum and its front neurosci. 2020 ; 14 : 749. connections, which play important roles in maintaining body bal - [ 3 ] paulino r, nobrega c. autophagy in spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 : ance, are the most common sites of degeneration in patients with from pathogenesis to therapeutics. int j mol sci. 2023 ; 24 : 7405. sca3. [ 4 ] neurodegenerative changes gradually deteriorate with the [ 4 ] rub u, schols l, paulson h, et al. clinical features, neurogenetics and development of the illness