/ 2024 ). by the genemapper software ( thermo fischer scientific ). after obtaining the peak pattern, number of repeats was calculated. 1 3 human genetics ( 2025 ) 144 : 545 – 557 547 whole exome sequencing and data analysis quantitative pcr ( qpcr ) barcoded libraries were generated from 50 ng of dna per qpcr was performed using the powerup sybr green sample as previously described ( zucco et al. 2024 ). reads master mix ( thermofisher scientific ) in a quantstudio 3™ were aligned to human genome build grch38 / hg38 and pcr system ( applied biosystems, foster city, ca, usa ). both variant calling and annotation were performed with the the ∆∆ct method was performed by the quantstudio varsome clinical platform ( saphetor ). a mean cover - design & analysis software v1. 4 ( applied biosystems ). age ≥ 50x in at least 95 % of the target region was consid - qpcr primer sequences are available upon request. ered suitable of the analysis. variants were called when a position was covered at least 20 times. an alternate allele oxford nanopore technologies ( ont ) - based library fraction of 20 % ( vaf ≥ 20 % ) and a genotype quality ( gq ) preparation and sequencing score of ≥ 30 were considered suitable for analysis. variants with frequency < 1 % in population - based databases ( i. e., accurate estimation of fxn - gaa repeat length was pergnomad ) were retained for further evaluation. variants formed using a targeted long - read sequencing through were classified according to the american college of medi - adaptive sampling. approximately 2 µg of dna sheared cal genetics and genomics ( acmg ) guidelines ( richards to a target size of 6 kb using covaris g - tube ( covaris ) et al. 2015 ; miller et al. 2023 ). was used to construct sequencing libraries using the oxford the exomedepth algorithm included in the varsome nanopore ligation sequencing kit v14 ( oxford nanoclinical platform was used for copy number variants ( cnvs ) pore technologies ) following the manufacturer ’ s instruccalling. at least 10 different samples, coming from the same tions. approximately 50 fmol of library was loaded onto an sequencing batch, having the same gender and not includ - r10.