p = 0. 3096 ). sca2 once again deep intronic, alteration in promoter / enhancer regions ), will proved to be the most frequent autosomal dominant spino - allow for the diagnosis of an increased number of positive cerebellar ataxia in italy ( 60 % of repeat expansion - positive cases, which however would not contribute much overall and 21. 43 % of positive patients in our cohort ) ( brusco et al. to the missing heredity of ha. long - read sequencing ( i. e., 2004 ; de mattei et al. 2024 ). ont or pacbio ) has the potential to address some of these wes analysis highlighted several rare forms of ataxia, limitations, however, this is still an emerging technology a predictable occurrence given the exponential increase in and has limitations, including affordability, scalability and genes associated with ha. moreover, it allowed assessing technical issues ( rafehi et al. 2023 ). complex neurological diseases, which are not classically counted as pure genetic ataxias. nonetheless, all patients did have ataxia on clinical examination. conclusion indeed, the presence of a heterogeneous group of disorders within our cohort but with a clinical diagnosis of ataxia our data suggest that the combined use of repeat expanclearly reiterates the notion that grouping neurological dis - sion analysis as first tier testing coupled to wes as a second orders with combined symptomatology can be challenging, tier test is able to detect the molecular alteration underpinas the most prominent features or symptoms could vary over ning ataxia in almost 50 % cases, regardless of the hereditime or among individuals with the same affected gene. tary pattern. detailed clinical phenotyping and segregation besides, an inconclusive test was assessed in 14 patients, analysis aid in results interpretations and prioritization of for whom a vus was identified. for most of them, familial variants during wes analysis. indeed, wes proved to be segregation could not be performed, hindering the possibil - able to assess unusual or rare syndromic disorders where ity to reclassify these variants. supplementary table 2 sum - the main symptom is ataxia. moreover, it allowed to confirm marizes the in silico evaluation of these variants. that a variety of hereditary diseases overlap the neurological we are aware that our study has some limitations. our phenotypes or even share genes with ha. our data,