##g with slightly different frequencies upon ethniclikely in those with a family history ( bogdanova - mihaylova ity ( maltby et al. 2024 ). furthermore, more recently, gaa et al. 2021 ). this could be related to the lack of samples expansions in the first intron of fgf14 have been associated from the other affected family members or the unavailabil - with spinocerebellar ataxia 27b ( sca27b, mim # 620174 ), ity of conducting a trio - based wes analysis. nevertheless, a new form of autosomal - dominant sca representing one the age of onset of positive patients is significantly lower of the most common genetic causes of adult - onset ataxia in compared to the one of patients who received a negative test several populations ( pellerin et al. 2024 ; satolli et al. 2024 ). ( p = 0. 0028 ). it is possible that some of the subjects who were negative in detail, 10 patients ( 14. 3 % ) presented pathogenic in the analyses performed in this study or who were carrirepeat expansions while 18 cases ( 30 % ) harbored at least ers of a vus, could test positive for these types of expana single nucleotide variant ( snv ) or a copy number variant sions. besides, despite neurogenomics has been boosted ( cnv ) in ha - or hsp - related genes. as already reported, with rapid advancements in the last decade thanks to ngs, there is no evidence supporting a higher diagnostic rate for this technology still possesses some weaknesses. short - read wes compared to rp - pcr ( p = 0. 1383 ), confirming the fact wes sequencing, the approach used in this study, does not that the two approaches are not commutable and investigate detect well long - range structural variants. the use of whole different pathogenic mechanisms. furthermore, the age of genome sequencing ( wgs ), which enables the analysis onset was not significantly different between rp - pcr - pos - of structural variants ( svs ) and non - coding variants ( i. e., itive and wes positive tests ( p = 0. 3096 ). sca2 once again deep intronic, alteration in promoter / enhancer regions ), will proved to be the most frequent autosomal dominant spino - allow for the diagnosis of an increased number of positive