##sticity ), logical disorders, tremendously improving the identifica - nystagmus, dysmetria, slurred speech, dysarthria and dystion of gene loci associated with ataxia, with now more phagia. exclusion criteria were : ( i ) inability to give written than 200 ataxia - associated genes identified ( beijer et al. informed consent and lack of a parent / legal representative ; 2024 ). indeed, whole exome sequencing ( wes ) is widely ( ii ) documented alcohol - related cerebellar dysfunction ; ( iii ) regarded as the current technology of choice for diagnosing documented traumatic brain injuries ( i. e., concussions ). monogenic disorders. the recent discovery of a remarkable number of genes dna extraction that, when mutated, produced hybrid phenotypes, ranging from a purer ataxia to pure spastic paraparesis or neuro - genomic dna was extracted from peripheral blood samples logical disorders in which ataxia is only part of the clinical collected into 10 ml k - edta blood collection tubes using 2 picture, complicates the clinical and genetic diagnostic pro - the qiasymphony® sp / as instrument ( qiagen ) according cess. to date, despite the revolutionary advance of genetic to the manufacturer ’ s instruction. dna quantity was estitesting, genetic diagnosis is still missing for about 50 % of mated using the qubit™ dsdna hs assay kit on a qubit ha ( parodi et al. 2018 ; alvarez - mora et al. 2023 ). 4. 0 fluorometer ( thermo fisher scientific ). therefore, within the diagnostic journey for patients presenting hereditary cerebellar ataxia, wes is not the first repeat - primed pcr ( rp - pcr ) molecular procedure since it is believed that the most common cause of ataxia is polyglutamine repeats expansions repeat - primed pcr was performed to assess cag repeats ( da graca et al. 2022 ). in atxn1 ( sca1 ), atxn2 ( sca2 ), atxn3 ( sca3 ), cacgiven these premises, here we describe the molecular na1a ( sca6 ), atxn7 ( sca7 ), ppp2r2b ( sca12 ) and characterization of a consecutive single - center series of 70 atn1 ( dr