’ s clinical signs and disease of family history. nevertheless, the introduction of ngs progression, confirmed the diagnosis of adrenomyeloneu - undoubtedly had a massive impact in expanding the list of ropathy ( amn ), which is one of the mildest forms of the genes responsible for complex neurological presentations. x - linked form of adrenoleukodystrophy, with age of onset ngs has in fact emerged as an effective diagnostic tool for in adulthood. typically, patients present with lower extrem - patients tested negative for repeat expansion ( ngo et al. ity weakness, difficulty in running, unsteady gait from sen - 2020 ). sory ataxia, sphincter disorders, and impotence, all of which indeed, ha and spastic paraplegia could manifest high are present in ha133 patient. degrees of phenotypic overlap also due to the fact that they overall, considering both repeats expansion and wes share alterations in the same genes or in genes involved in data, a positive genetic test was assessed in 40 % cases the same molecular pathways. yet that is another reason ( n = 28 / 70 ), an inconclusive one in 20 % ( n = 14 / 70 ) while why ngs, and in particular wes, got a foothold in the diagthe detection of solely an incidental finding was highlighted nostics of these conditions as it is able to assess differential in 5. 7 % patients ( n = 4 / 70 ). a negative test was assessed in diagnosis within a single test. 34. 3 % ( n = 24 / 70 ) ( fig. 2 ). the complete set of molecular in the last 5 - years, diverse studies tried to investigate the data obtained from this analysis, including incidental find - overall detection rate of ngs in ha, yielding conflicting ings, are summarized in supplementary table 1. results ranging from 26 to 52 % ( sun et al. 2019 ; kang et finally, among the 26 patients ’ relatives available for al. 2019 ; kim et al. 2020 ; galatolo et al. 2021 ; da graca segregation analysis, 12 individuals were found to have et al. 2022 ; gorcenco et al. 2024 ). tenorio and colleagues inherited a deleterious variant ( 46. 2 % ) and 7 of them were performed a systematic review analyzing 33 primary studreported to be symptomatic when genetic testing was ies on ngs in ataxic patients assessing a median