following the manufacturer ’ s instruccalling. at least 10 different samples, coming from the same tions. approximately 50 fmol of library was loaded onto an sequencing batch, having the same gender and not includ - r10. 4. 1 flow cell on a gridion sequencer. target regions ing related individuals, are used to call cnvs. observed / comprising 0. 2 % of the whole genome were enriched using expected ( o / e ) number of reads is then calculated. o / e > 0. 8 the adaptive sampling option to assess fxn - gaa repeats. for deletions and < 1. 2 for duplications, were filtered out. sequencing was performed for approximately 2 – 3 days cnvs were classified according to the acmg and the clin - with one additional library loading. sequences were base ical genome resource ( clingen ) guidelines. called using guppy v4. 3. 4 in high - accuracy mode during in this work, we decided to report both unsolicited find - the run on the gridion and then aligned to grch38 using ings ( ufs ) and secondary findings ( sfs ) as incidental find - minimap2 v2. 14. tandem - genotypes v1. 3. 0 was used to ings ( ifs ). indeed, unsolicited findings ( ufs ) are defined as assess the number of gaa repeats. pathogenic / likely pathogenic variants not related to the initial clinical question but that may nonetheless be of medical statistical analysis relevance for the patient ; secondary findings ( sfs ), instead, are deleterious variants not related to the initial clinical statistical analysis was performed using graphpad prism question but that are actively looked for ( van der schoot software v. 5 ( graphpad software inc, boston, ma, usa ). et al. 2022 ). contextually, the secondary findings minimum categorical data were expressed as number and percentlist ( acmg sf v3. 2 ), which include 81 medically action - age. d ’ agostino ’ s k - squared test was used to assess normal able disease gene for which preventive measures and / or distribution of data. either mann whitney u - test or welch treatment exist ( miller et al. 2023 ), has been used to dis - t - test were used to compare variances between groups. fishcriminate between ufs and sfs. er ’ s exact test was used for group