i. e., nonspecific atrophy, whereas abnormalities are evident with p. tyr567ser or p. gly286asp ) substantially reduced galc gadolinium uptake. electromyography, however, showed activity, lysosomal localization and secretion in hek293 or polyneuropathy, slightly worsening, in the lower limbs. the hela cells ( spratley et al. 2016 ; shin et al. 2016 ). thus, it patient ’ s most recent encephalic mri ( again, without conis postulated that the p. ile562thr may function as a genetic trast medium ) showed no substantial abnormalities. this modifier ( bascou et al. 2020 ). the presence of a heterozy - finding is consistent, as it is known that encephalic mri can gous p. ile562thr variant in trans with a pathogenic variant show abnormalities of brainstem pyramidal tracts in about has been already reported in patients with kd ( saavedra - 40 – 45 % of cases. nevertheless, the patient recently develmatiz et al. 2016 ) and the occurrence of the p. arg184cys oped pyramidism in the upper limbs. to date, an assessment 1 3 human genetics ( 2025 ) 144 : 545 – 557 553 f ig. 2 pie chart showing the overall results of genetic testing. percentage indicates the number of patients in whom a positive test was assessed. positive tests are depicted in light blue while positive tests including an incidental finding are represented in green. negative tests are represented in purple. inconclusive tests are represented in orange while the concurrent occurrence of vuss and incidental findings is depicted in red. the solely presence of incidental findings is represented in pink of the plasmatic concentration of very long - chain fatty the discovery of trinucleotide cag repeats expansions acids, useful to either validate or exclude the abcd1 variant as a common cause of ha in the early 1990s boosted the as causative, has not been performed. the patient ’ s clinical diagnostic pathway of this disease, even in the absence neurologist, based on the patient ’ s clinical signs and disease of family history. nevertheless, the introduction of ngs progression, confirmed the diagnosis of adrenomyeloneu - undoubtedly had a massive impact in expanding the list of ropathy ( amn ), which is one