##ta - nucleotide expansions in sca10, 31 and 37, 2 department of medicine ( dmed ), university of udine, via and hexa - nucleotide in sca36 ( sullivan et al. 2019 ). autochiusaforte ingresso e, 33100 udine, italy somal recessive forms of ha are less frequent and include 3 mauro baschirotto institute for rare disease ( b. i. r. d. ), biallelic variations in more than 100 genes. also in the costozza di longare, vicenza, italy recessive forms, repeats amplification can occur, as exem4 neurology unit, department of neurosciences, azienda plified by friedreich ataxia ( frda ) ( beaudin et al. 2019 ). sanitaria universitaria friuli centrale ( asufc ), udine, italy 1 3 546 human genetics ( 2025 ) 144 : 545 – 557 although these conditions have been categorized based inclusion and exclusion criteria on transmission patterns and disease - gene correlations, an increasing number of examples of similarities with a num - for patients ’ enrollment, a set of inclusion and exclusion ber of clinical syndromes are now emerging. indeed, ha criteria have been used. could present overlapping characteristics with other neuro - inclusion criteria were : ( i ) age > 18 years old ; ( ii ) abillogical diseases, such as hereditary spastic paraplegia, inher - ity to give written informed consent, including compliance ited peripheral neuropathies, epileptic encephalopathies and with the requirements and restrictions listed in the consent mitochondrial disorders ( van de vondel et al. 2024 ). form, by the patients or a parent / legal representative ; ( iii ) undeniably, the advent of next - generation sequenc - documented degenerated brain region ( by mri ), ataxia or ing ( ngs ) in clinical and research settings over the past cerebellar ataxia, gait disturbances and movement problems 20 years has revolutionized the field of genetics in neuro - ( i. e. difficulty in walking and climbing stairs, spasticity ), logical disorders, tremendously improving the identifica - nystagmus, dysmetria, slurred speech, dysarthria and dystion of gene loci associated with ataxia, with now