referred as pure genetic ataxias. our data suggests that the combined use of repeat expansion analysis and wes, coupled to detailed clinical phenotyping, is able to detect the molecular alteration underpinning ataxia in almost 50 % cases, regardless of the hereditary pattern. indeed, ngs - based tests are fundamental to acknowledge novel ha - associated genes useful to explain the remaining wide fraction of negative tests. nowadays, this gap is problematic since these patients could not benefit from an etiological diagnosis of their disease that allows prognostic trajectories and prenatal / preimplantation diagnosis. introduction associated with degeneration of purkinje cells and / or spinocerebellar connections ( galatolo et al. 2021 ). the manifeshereditary ataxia ( ha ) belongs to a heterogeneous group tation of the disease usually occurs between 30 and 50 years of rare neurodegenerative disorders with a wide spectrum old, although an early onset ( i. e., before 25 years old ) could of phenotypes. gait abnormalities, disequilibrium, dysar - occur. all inheritance patterns have been detected, includthria, and dysmetria are the most common clinical traits, ing autosomal dominant, autosomal recessive and x - linked inheritance ( jayadev and bird 2013 ). autosomal dominant spinocerebellar ataxia ( sca ) is considered the most frequent dominant has, with a prevaelisa bregant and elena betto contributed equally to this work. lence of 5. 6 cases per 100, 000 individuals, with significant geographical and ethnic variations ( de mattei et al. 2024 ). it catia mio includes more than 40 clinical conditions caused by pathocatia. mio @ uniud. it logical trinucleotide repeat expansions in sca1, 2, 3, 6, 7, 1 institute of medical genetics, azienda sanitaria universitaria 8, 12, 17 and drpla ( dentatorubral – pallidoluysian atrofriuli centrale ( asufc ), udine, italy phy ), penta - nucleotide expansions in sca10, 31 and 37, 2 department of medicine ( dmed ), university of udine, via and hexa - nucleotide in sca36 ( sullivan et al. 2019 ).